I mentioned in the last lecture that we want to use vapid keys to protect our push messages and
make sure we only send them from our application server and no one else can send them.
Now for that, we'll install a package which we'll also use on our back-end,
now keep in mind our back-end, that's our Firebased cloud function here,
this is our back-end code and this could run on any of your node servers too of course.
Now if you're not using NodeJS on your back-end, there are of course also packages for other frameworks,
other languages like PHP
to use web push and generate vapid keys, you'll just have to google search for your own framework
or back-end language of choice and vapid or web push to find fitting libraries. For our project
here,
I'll go into that functions folder in my project folder here, in my terminal,
that's the normal terminal,
just integrate it into my IDE and there I will run npm install --save to also store an entry in the package.json
file web-push. This will install this web push package which will allow us to generate
these vapid keys and also later send the push messages themselves.
Now in the package.json file, I can add a new section which I'll name scripts which holds a Javascript
object of our own scripts we can run and I will set one up to easily generate such vapid keys by using
this web push package from the command line. I'll name the script web push
but you can use any name you want and the value is also web push.
Now this is not anything you want,
this is the package name,
so this will just execute the package and this gives us a convenient way of running npm run web push which
will just give an error because this command like this doesn't do anything.
It gives us hint at how we may use it though,
send notification, that's something we'll later use directly from our NodeJS
code but generate vapid keys,
that's a great command to generate these key-value pairs
we need to authenticate our requests.
Now we only need to generate one per application
basically, this doesn't change later on.
You can change it but then you will render your existing subscription useless,
so you only run this once during development.
So I'll re-run npm run web push blank, generate -vapid keys and this will give us a public
key and a private key.
Now we'll use the private key later on the server,
for now we need the public key.
So let's copy that key, go back to our application, to the app.js
file and let's quickly store it in a variable and I'll name this variable vapidPublicKey.
So that's the string
and that's the string I just copied.
Now we don't pass this key to the subscribe method though, the subscribe object here actually expects
a Uint8Array. Now attached to this file,
you will find a function, a text file basically with a function which you can add to your utility.js
file,
it's this urlBase64Uint8Array helper function.
Now this might look very complicated,
you don't need to write it from scratch,
it will convert and URL base 64 string which we have,
that's the public vapid key
to an array of Uint8 values.
Now that is exactly what we need to pass to that subscribe method
and that's a useful helper function which we can use in app.js because app.js gets
imported after utility.js where we define the helper function.
So now, I'll create a new variable here and this is a variable I'll name convertedVapidPublicKey
.
and of course you can pick a shorter name if you like. Here I will execute this helper function,
so this urlBase64Uint8Array function and pass the vapid public key to it.
By doing that, I now have the value I actually need to pass to the subscribe object and
I do so by adding a second property to it
and this has to be named application server key and the value is converted public key. With
that set up, we're passing something to our back-end soon or right now we're just generating a
subscription with a clear identification of a server who's allowed to send push messages.
Now this alone of course doesn't identify our server but since we'll later store the private key on
the server, we'll have the counterpart and then the browser window or server is basically able to match
both together and find out that our application server is authenticated.
So that generates our subscription, the subscription like this isn't worth much though, we have to make
sure that we pass the subscription to our back-end.
So I will return the subscription here and in the else case I just don't do anything here
and then I'll continue with then.
Now here, I will actually get a new subscription in my function which gets executed because subscribe
returns a promise,
so therefore here we resolve the promise and we get this new subscription.
Now this new subscription is what I want to pass to my server now.
Now to my server of course means my Firebase server,
here it is, let me close this.
Here I got my real time database and in this database where I store my posts, I also want to store
my new subscriptions.
Now for that, we can simply copy that URL here and now issue a new post request
to that URL
and then a subscriptions node which will get created automatically.
So I will use fetch for that, pass the URL and there as I just said maybe store it in a subscriptions node,
don't forget to add .json
when directly targeting the database interface on Firebase and I'll pass an object to configure this
request because of course it shouldn't be a get request,
it should be a post request by adding that method,
I want to set the appropriate headers. So here I will set content type to be application/json
and I also only accept values of that type,
so application/json as a response, lowercase J. So these are the headers and of course
I need to send the body,
now here I will use JSON.stringify to turn a Javascript object into JSON and I will pass my new
subscription as we get it back from the subscribe method to it.
So now I'm sending a post request to my database to store my subscription there
and with that, I'll return this too, fetch of course also returns a promise. Now I'll chain another
then call here,
so we have quite a lot of then calls
and this shows the power of promises,
it's still quite readable,
imagine this with callbacks,
we would be in callback hell already. Now this function holds the response of the server,
the thing I want to do here though is I simply want to display my confirm notification, that we successfully
subscribed.
So here I'll remove from service worker because I now just want to say I successfully subscribed,
the rest should still work
and I subscribe as soon as I have back a response.
Well maybe we check if response is OK,
OK is this helper variable which is true whenever we have a 200 something response
because then we know
yes it indeed was successful.
Now we display our notification and I'll catch any error happening in any of the steps prior to catch
and there I just want to log it so that during development, I can easily find out why something isn't
working.
With that, we get a set up to send, to create a new subscription and send it to the server, let's now
see if that works as it should work. For that
I'll save it and go back to my application, there to the application tab and clear the site data,
refresh the page of course
and let's now create a new notification, new subscription excuse me, by clicking enable notifications.
Now let's check our database,
there we get the new subscriptions node with an object with this ID automatically assigned by Firebase
and in there, this is now the subscription object generated by this subscribe method here.
This object as you can see holds an endpoint
and this is one of Google servers for Chrome
basically, that's the endpoint I meant on this browser window server.
It's not our server,
we can't access it
but this is the URL we have to send push messages to
and even though it looks quite cryptic,
anyone with that URL could send the messages
but here comes the interesting part,
the keys. Here we get two keys, an auth key and a p256dh key,
now both look very cryptic.
The cool thing is these keys in the end incorporate our vapid information or all three things together
incorporate our vapid public key information. As soon as we start sending push messages from our application
server,
we need to pass auth and that p256dh key as well as our private vapid key
and then there's web push package
will use all that information to send a push request to this endpoint which identifies itself as coming
from our identified and verified application server.
So this is all the information we need to send a push request together with the private key which
we're not using yet
but with that, let's start working on the server side to send new push requests to our web app.